學年度          083
校院代碼        0102
系所代碼        542213
學位類別        M
論文名稱(中)    處理多類模糊輸入的類神經網路分類器
論文名稱(英)    A Multiclass Neural Network Classifier
                with Fuzzy Teaching Inputs
語文別          中文
學號            M8202040
研究生姓(中)    陳
研究生名(中)    宏領
研究生姓名(英)  Hong-Ling Chen
指導教授(中)    李漢銘
指導教授(英)    Hahn-Ming Lee
關鍵字(中)      模糊集合理論；類神經網路；資料分類器；梯形模糊數
關鍵字(英)      fuzzy sets theory; neural networks; pattern classifier;
                trapezoidal fuzzy number
提要(中)        本篇論文提出一個能處理模糊輸入資訊之類神經網路分類器，而且這系統
                的輸出可以是多類別的。這分類器的隱藏層 (hidden layer) 是以結合一
                個模糊原型節點 (fuzzy prototype node) 以及數個模糊範例節點(fuzzy
                exemplar nodes) 的方式來表示每一種輸出類別。模糊輸入資訊以及位於
                隱藏層中的所有節點皆採用梯形模糊數 (trapezoidal fuzzy number) 來
                表示。此模型的訓練演算法有兩個回合(passes)。第一回合採用兩種快速
                的單週期(one-epoch) 演算法其中之一來訓練原型節點的權重 (weights)
                。其一稱為模糊超矩盒原型之擴展暨收縮 (Prototype Expansion and
                Contraction of FUzzy Hyperbox, PECFUH)，另一種為模糊數之向量量化
                學習法 (FUzzy Number's Learning Vector Quantization, FUNLVQ)。訓
                練後的原型節點能正確分類大部份的輸入樣本。例外的樣本則經由範例節
                點的產生或擴展來處理。第二回合訓練的目的即在於建構各個範例節點，
                而且經由所提出的少週期訓練演算法，稱之為模糊範例之巢狀建立暨擴展
                (Fuzzy Exemplar Nested Creation and Expansion, FENCE) 來達成。因
                為原型節點的上述功能，範例節點的數目能大量減少，第二回合的學習速
                率也得以提升。此外，本模型具有線上學習能力以及少量的模糊數計算。
                非線性可分割的輸入樣本以及互相重疊的類別也有不錯的處理結果。值得
                一提的是，當遇到含有不考慮項 (don't-care) 資訊的輸入樣本時，此模
                型具有非常好的一般化 (generalization) 能力。實驗結果則顯示此分類
                器在學習以及回想 (recall) 時的速度都相當快；同時，所需的節點數目
                亦很少。

提要(英)        This paper presents a multiclass neural network classifier with
                fuzzy teaching inputs.  The classifier creates each class by
                aggregating a fuzzy prototype and several fuzzy exemplars in the
                hidden layer. Fuzzy inputs and all the nodes in the hidden layer
                are represented by trapezoidal fuzzy numbers.  We train the
                classifier by a two-pass learning algorithm. In pass one, a very
                fast one-epoched algorithm PECFUH (Prototype Expansion and
                Contraction of FUzzy Hyperbox) or FUNLVQ(FUzzy Number's Learning
                Vector Quantization) is used to train the prototypes.  These
                prototypes will classify as many fuzzy input instances as possi-
                ble.  Afterward, exemplars that mean the exceptions, like the
                "holes," in pattern space will be generated and expanded in pass
                two to classify those fuzzy input instances that cannot be
                correctly classified by the prototypes. We propose a few-epoched
                FENCE (Fuzzy Exemplar Nested Creation and Expansion) training
                algorithm to create the exemplar nodes.  Due to the training in
                pass one, the number of exemplar nodes is reduced and the
                learning speed is very fast during pass two.  In addition, on-
                line adaptation is supplied in this model and the computational
                load is lightened.  Also, nonlinearly separable instances and
                overlapping classes can be handled well.  Furthermore, this
                classifier has good generalization ability for the training
                instances with don't-care information.  The experimental results
                manifest that the training and recalling are fast. At the same
                time, they illustrate that required nodes are few.

頁數            100
