Abstract
	This paper presents a multiclass neural network classifier to learn disjunctive fuzzy information in the feature space.  This neural network consists of two types of nodes in the hidden layer.  The prototype nodes and the exemplar nodes represent prototypes and exemplars in the feature space, respectively.  This classifier contains two separate training algorithms.  The pass 1 training algorithm DYNPRO (DYNamic numbers of PROtotypes) automatically generates and refines prototypes for distinct clusters in the feature space.  The number and growth parameter of these prototypes are not restricted, so the prototypes will form near-optimal decision regions to meet the distribution of input patterns and classify as many input patterns as possible.  Next, the pass 2 training algorithm GFENCE (Generalized Fuzzy Exemplars Nested Creation and Expansion) is used to place and adjust exemplars to learn the patterns that cannot be classified by the prototypes.  Such a training strategy can reduce the memory requirement and speed up the process of nonlinear classification.  In addition, on-line ability is supplied in this model and the computational load is lightened.  The experimental results manifest that the appropriate number of prototype nodes used to represent patterns clusters can be determined by this model, and the recognition rate for disjunctive fuzzy information evaluated by this model is encouraging.


   處理多類分離模糊資訊的類神經網路分類器
						 摘    要
	本篇論文提出一個類神經網路分類器來學習多類的分離模糊資訊。在這個網路的隱藏層 (hidden layer) 中由兩種節點組成，原型節點 (prototype node) 和範例節點 (exemplar node) 分別對應在特徵空間的原型和範例。此分類器的訓練演算法有兩個回合。第一回合訓練法則，稱為動態數目之原形節點 (DYNamic numbers of PROtotypes, DYNPRO)，能夠依照分佈在特徵空間的分離樣本群自動地產生原形節點。由於這些原型節點的數目和成長參數 (growth parameter) 並沒有被限制，所以這些原形節點會形成接近-最佳判斷區域 (near-optimal decision regions) 來近似輸入樣本的分佈並且能夠將大部份的輸入樣本正確分類。接下來，第二回合訓練法則，稱為一般化的模糊範例之巢狀建立暨擴展 (Generalized Fuzzy Exemplars Nested Creation and Expansion, GFENCE)，將會產生和調整範例節點來學習無法被原形節點正確分類的輸入樣本。此訓練策略能減少記憶體的需求並且能使非線性分類 (nonlinear classification) 的過程加速。此外，本模型具有線上學習能力以及少量的模糊計算。實驗結果顯示此分類器能產生適當的原形節點來代表分佈在樣本空間的樣本群，並且對分離資料庫的辨識率亦有不錯的表現。
